>> WHEN IT COMES TO TELEPHONE
CALLS, NOBODY IS LISTENING TO
YOUR TELEPHONE CALLS.
>> Woodruff: PRESIDENT OBAMA
TODAY VIGOROUSLY DEFENDED
GOVERNMENT SURVEILLANCE OF PHONE
AND INTERNET ACTIVITY.
GOOD EVENING, I'M JUDY WOODRUFF.
>> Brown: AND I'M JEFFREY BROWN.
ON THE "NEWSHOUR" TONIGHT: WE
GET THE LATEST ON THE SECRET
DATA MINING OF CALLS, EMAILS,
VIDEOS AND CREDIT CARDS TO
PREVENT TERRORISM ATTACKS.
>> Woodruff: MARGARET WARNER
WRAPS UP HER SERIES OF
ON-THE-GROUND REPORTS IN
LEBANON: A CLOSER LOOK AT THE
COUNTRY'S DELICATE SECTARIAN
POLITICS, STRAINED BY THE
FALLOUT FROM THE SYRIAN CIVIL
WAR.
>> THE TIDAL WAVE OF MOSTLY
SUNNI REFUGEES COULD ALSO UPSET
THE DEMOGRAPHIC BALANCE IN
LEBANON, AMONG SUNNIS AND SHIAS
AND A MAJOR COMBATANT IN
LEBANON'S CIVIL WAR, THE
CHRISTIANS.
>> Brown: MARK SHIELDS AND DAVID
BROOKS ANALYZE THE WEEK'S NEWS.
>> Woodruff: AND GWEN IFILL HAS
THE STORY OF ONE CHINESE WOMAN'S
SEARCH FOR HER JAILED DISSIDENT
FATHER AND THE NOVEL INSPIRED BY
HER EXPERIENCE.
THAT'S ALL AHEAD ON TONIGHT'S
"NEWSHOUR."
>> Brown: REVELATIONS THAT THE
GOVERNMENT IS CHECKING UP ON
PHONE CALLS, WEB TRAFFIC AND
CREDIT CARD SALES PROMPTED THE
PRESIDENT TO SPEAK OUT TODAY.
HE SAID INTELLIGENCE OFFICIALS
ARE TRYING TO KEEP THE COUNTRY
SAFE FROM TERRORISM AND THEY'RE
DOING IT UNDER CLOSE
SUPERVISION.
IT'S NOW KNOWN THE NATIONAL
SECURITY AGENCY IS RUNNING THREE
HIGHLY CLASSIFIED SURVEILLANCE
PROGRAMS.
THE FIRST TO BE PUBLICIZED
COLLECTS PHONE CALL DATA FROM
MILLIONS OF VERIZON, A.T.&T. AND
SPRINT CUSTOMERS.
LAST NIGHT, DIRECTOR OF NATIONAL
INTELLIGENCE JAMES CLAPPER ALSO
CONFIRMED THE EXISTENCE OF
PRISM, TARGETING THE INTERNET.
IT TAPS INTO THE CENTRAL SERVERS
OF NINE MAJOR U.S. COMPANIES,
INCLUDING GOOGLE, APPLE, YAHOO,
AND FACEBOOK,O AC TCESS
E-MAILS AND OTHER FILES.
TODAY, THE "WALL STREET JOURNAL"
REPORTED THE N.S.A. ALSO
CATALOGUES CREDIT CARD
TRANSACTIONS.
HOURS LATER, PRESIDENT OBAMA
DEFENDED THE N.S.A.'S
ACTIVITIES, AT A STOP IN SAN
JOSE, CALIFORNIA.
>> NOBODY IS LISTENING TO YOUR
TELEPHONE CALLS.
THAT'S NOT WHAT THIS PROGRAM'S
ABOUT.
THEY ARE NOT LOOKING AT PEOPLE'S
NAMES, AND THEY'RE NOT LOOKING
AT CONTENT.
BUT BY SIFTING THROUGH THIS SO-
CALLED METADATA, THEY MAY
IDENTIFY POTENTIAL LEADS WITH
RESPECT TO FOLKS WHO MIGHT
ENGAGE IN TERRORISM.
NOW, WITH RESPECT TO THE
INTERNET AND EMAILS, THIS DOES
NOT APPLY TO U.S. CITIZENS, AND
IT DOES NOT APPLY TO PEOPLE
LIVING IN THE UNITED STATES.
>> Brown: THE PROGRAMS BEGAN IN
2006, AND THE PRESIDENT SAID
THEY'VE BEEN MONITORED BY
CONGRESS AND THE COURTS ALL
ALONG.
>> BIPARTISAN MAJORITIES HAVE
APPROVED THEM.
CONGRESS IS CONTINUALLY BRIEFED
ON HOW THESE ARE CONDUCTED.
THERE ARE A WHOLE RANGE OF
SAFEGUARDS INVOLVED.
AND FEDERAL JUDGES ARE
OVERSEEING THE ENTIRE PROGRAM
THROUGHOUT.
>> Brown: MANY IN CONGRESS
SUPPORT THE SURVEILLANCE, WHILE
OTHER LAWMAKERS, ALONG WITH
CIVIL LIBERTARIANS, HAVE VOICED
ALARM.
MR. OBAMA SAID THAT'S ALL TO THE
GOOD.
>> I SPECIFICALLY SAID THAT ONE
OF THE THINGS THAT WE'RE GOING
TO HAVE TO DISCUSS AND DEBATE IS
HOW WERE WE STRIKING THIS
BALANCE BETWEEN THE NEED TO KEEP
THE AMERICAN PEOPLE SAFE AND OUR
CONCERNS ABOUT PRIVACY, BECAUSE
THERE ARE SOME TRADE-OFFS
INVOLVED.
AND I WELCOME THIS DEBATE.
>> Brown: AT THE SAME TIME, THE
PRESIDENT DENOUNCED THE LEAKS
THAT TRIGGERED THE DEBATE.
>> I THINK THAT THERE IS A
SUGGESTION THAT SOMEHOW ANY
CLASSIFIED PROGRAM IS A QUOTE-
UNQUOTE "SECRET" PROGRAM, WHICH
MEANS IT'S SOMEHOW SUSPICIOUS.
BUT THE FACT OF THE MATTER IS,
AND IF EVERY STEP THAT WE'RE
TAKING TO TRY TO PREVENT A
TERRORIST ACT IS ON THE FRONT
PAGE OF THE NEWSPAPERS OR ON
TELEVISION, THEN PRESUMABLY THE
PEOPLE WHO ARE TRYING TO DO US
HARM ARE GOING TO BE ABLE TO GET
AROUND OUR PREVENTIVE MEASURES.
>> Brown: THE PRESIDENT SAID HE
PLANS TO ADDRESS THE ISSUE
FURTHER, IN COMING DAYS.
FOR MORE ON WHAT IS KNOWN ABOUT
THE N.S.A.'S PROGRAMS WE TURN TO
TWO REPORTERS WHO'VE BEEN
COVERING THIS STORY.
SIOBHAN GORMAN OF "THE WALL
STREET JOURNAL," AND CHARLIE
SAVAGE OF "THE NEW YORK TIMES."
CHARLIE, TELL US FIRST MORE
ABOUT THE COLLECTION OF DATA ON
THE INTERNET.
WHAT DOE K WNOW ABOUT HOW
EXTENSIVE IT IS AND HOW IT
WORKS?
>> WELL, PEOPLE WHO PAY
ATTENTION TO THIS WORLD MAY
REMEMBER THAT IN 2008 CONGRESS
PASSED A LAW CALLED THE FISA
AMENDMENTS ACT WHICH
RETROACTIVELY OR GOING FORWARD
LEGALIZED A FORM OF THE
WARRANTLESS SURVEILLANCE THAT
PRESIDENT BUSH HAD BEEN
CONDUCTING OUTSIDE OF STATUTORY
AUTHORITY AND AN ELEMENT OF THAT
WAS THAT SURVEILLANCE AIMS AT
FOREIGNERS OVERSEAS DID NOT NEED
TO HAVE INDIVIDUALIZED WARRANTS
EVEN IF THAT COLLECTION WAS
TAKING PLACE ON U.S. SOIL.
YOU COULD GET A BASKET
SURVEILLANCE ORDER THAT WOULD BE
GOOD FOR UP TO A YEAR AIMED AT,
SAY, SURVEILLED SUSPECTING AL
QAEDA TARGETS IN PAKISTAN.
THAT WOULD INCLUDE E-MAILS TO
AND FROM THOSE PEOPLE, EVEN IF
THEY WERE COMMUNICATING WITH
PEOPLE INSIDE THE UNITED STATES.
AND SO WHAT PRISM SEEMS TO BE IS
THE MANIFESTATION OF THAT
PROGRAM THAT'S CALLED 702 ORDERS
IN THE WORLD -- THIS UNIVERSE,
GOING TO INTERNET COMPANIES, AT
LEAST NINE OF THEM, WHO ARE
PARTICIPATING IN THE PROGRAM BY,
WHEN BEING PRESENTED WITH THESE
ORDERS AND REQUESTS UNDER THEM,
TURNING OVER INFORMATION ABOUT
E-MAILS AND OTHER ELECTRONIC
TRAFFIC THAT THEY HAVE ABOUT THE
OVERSEAS TARGETS AND THE PEOPLE
THEY'RE COMMUNICATING WITH.
>> Brown: SHIV SEAN, WE ALSO
LEARNED TODAY THAT THE DATA
COLLECTION PROGRAM ON THE PHONE
CALL WHICH IS FIRST CAME OUT
YESTERDAY GOES BEYOND VERIZON.
>> YES, WE WERE TOLD IT'S THE
LEE MAJOR CARRIERS SO IT'S
VERIZON, AT&T AND SPRINT NEXTEL.
THEY HAVE THE SAME STANDING
ORDERS FROM THE FISA COURT, THE
SECRET SURVEILLANCE COURT.
>> Brown: TODAY YOU REPORTED
ON THE CATALOGING OF CREDIT CARD
TRANSACTIONS, THAT WAS NEW
TODAY.
TELL US WHAT YOU CAN ABOUT THAT.
WHAT DO WE KNOW?
>> WELL, MY UNDERSTANDING IS
THAT IT'S -- THERE HAVE
BASICALLY BEEN A WHOLE HOST OF
TRANSACTIONS THAT HAVE BEEN
SWEPT UP IN THE WAKE OF THE
SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACKS AND THIS
HAS BEEN SORT OF AN EVOLUTION.
SO ONE OF THE SETS OF
TRANSACTIONS THAT HAS BEEN
FUNNELED THROUGH THE DATABASES
IS CREDIT CARD TRANSACTIONS.
I DO WANT TO BE CAREFUL WHAT I
WAS TOLD.
IT'S NOT CLEAR THERE ARE
STANDING ORDERS FOR CREDIT CARD
TRANSACTIONS BUT THERE'S
CERTAINLY THAT DATA HAS BEEN
INCORPORATED INTO THESE DATABASE
VETTING SEARCH TYPES OF
INVESTIGATIONS AS WELL.
AS HAVE LOTS OF DIFFERENT TYPES
OF INFORMATION FROM DATA BROKERS
WHICH YOU CAN -- ONE CAN BUY,
YOU CAN BUY IT FOR DIRECT
MARKETING PURPOSES.
BUT IN THIS CASE IT'S JUST BEING
USED TO COLLECT AS MUCH
INFORMATION AS POSSIBLE TO
BALANCE IT AGAINST LEADS AND
THINGS LIKE THAT.
THE INTELLIGENCE OFFICIALS PICK
UP IN THE COURSE OF THEIR
TERRORISM INVESTIGATION.
>> Brown: YOU'RE SAYING,
THOUGH, IT'S NOT CLEAR WHETHER
THAT PROGRAM CONTINUES.
WHETHER THAT'S ONGOING.
>> RIGHT.
I MEAN, IT MAY BE THE KIND OF
THING THAT -- SOMETHING THEY DO
PERIODICALLY FOR DIFFERENT
PURPOSES.
>> Brown: CHARLIE, WE HEARD
THE PRESIDENT SAY "NO ONE IS
LISTENING TO YOUR CALLS."
SO FLESH THIS OUT A BIT.
EXPLAIN WHAT -- WHAT IS GOING ON
IN THE SEARCH FOR DATA.
>> WELL, SO HE'S REFERRING
SPECIFICALLY TO THE FIRST OF
THESE NOW THREE MAJOR
INTELLIGENCE DISCLOSURES OVER
THE LAST THREE DAYS.
AND THAT INVOLVES THE CALLING
LOG DATA THAT SIOBHAN WAS JUST
REFERRING TO FROM SPRINT AND
VERIZON AND AT&T.
WHAT THIS APPEARS TO BE DOING IS
ASSEMBLING A GIANT LIBRARY OF
CALLS MADE INSIDE THE UNITED
STATES AND CALLS MADE BETWEEN
THE UNITED STATES AND ABROAD.
NOT THE CONTENTS OF THOSE CALLS
BUT THIS NUMBER CALLED THAT
NUMBER AT SUCH AND SUCH A DATE
FROM SUCH AND SUCH A LOCATION.
AND WHEN YOU HAVE -- BUT ALL OF
THEM.
ORDINARY PEOPLE'S CALLS ARE
BEING LOGGED IN HERE.
BUT THAT DOESN'T MEAN THAT WHAT
THEY'RE SAYING TO PEOPLE IS
BEING EAVESDROPPED UPON.
IT APPEARS THIS DATABASE IS
BEING USED SO THAT WHEN THEY
LEARN THAT SOMEONE IS SUSPICIOUS
THEY WANT TO QUICKLY SEE WHO
THAT PERSON WAS TALKING TO AND
WHO WAS TALKING TO THOSE PEOPLE
WITHOUT HAVING TO GO BACK TO THE
PHONE COMPANIES AND PRESENT
INDIVIDUAL ORDERS AND THAT WOULD
SLOW DOWN THE PROCESS AND/OR
MAYBE THE PHONE COMPANIES WOULD
HAVE DISPOSED OF THE DATA AFTER
SOME TIME FOR THEIR OWN BUSINESS
PURPOSES.
HOWEVER, ONE QUESTION THAT'S
ARISEN AROUND THIS PROGRAM IS
WHETHER IT'S NECESSARY FOR THE
PRIVACY COST THAT'S INCURRED--
ESPECIALLY NOW THAT WE ALL
KNOW-- EVERY TIME YOU CALL
SOMEONE THAT'S GOING TO BE A
PERMANENT RECORD IN THE
GOVERNMENT THAT YOU DID SO.
COULD THE GOVERNMENT NOT JUST
TAKE THAT EXEXTRA STEP OF
GETTING THOSE SUBPOENAS WHEN
THEY NEED THEM ABOUT A SPECIFIC
PERSON IN THE COMMUNITY OF
INTEREST SURROUNDING THEM?
DOES THIS REALLY NEED TO BE
STORED FOREVER, EVERYBODY'S
PHONE CALL RECORD?
THAT WILL BE ONE OF THE
CONVERSATIONS THAT'S UNFOLDING
IN DAYS TO COME.
>> Brown: SIOBHAN, LET ME
START WITH YOU ON THIS.
LET WHAT DO WE KNOW ABOUT HOW
THE DATA HAS BEEN USED SO FAR?
WE'VE HAD SEVERAL MEMBERS OF
CONGRESS, I THINK, REFER TO THE
PROGRAM ACTUALLY HELPING TO STOP
TERRORISTS.
DO WE KNOW ANY DETAILS?
DO WE KNOW HOW ALL THIS HAS BEEN
USED?
>> WELL, YES.
LAWMAKERS HAVE SAID THAT THERE
WAS AT LEAST ONE SIGNIFICANT
TERRORIST PLOT THAT WAS THWARTED
SEVERAL YEARS AGO.
WE'VE STILL BEEN WAITING TO GET
DETAIL WHICH IS APPARENTLY
THEY'RE WORKING TO GET
DECLASSIFIED BUT BUT IT SOUND
LIKE THAT WON'T HAPPEN TODAY.
I WAS TOLD THAT ONE OF THE
PRIMARY VALUES THAT INTELLIGENCE
OFFICIALS SEE IN THIS PROGRAM IS
THAT IT ALLOWS YOU TO SORT OF
RULE IN AND RULE OUT DIFFERENT
INDIVIDUALS AND LOCATIONS.
SO IF YOU GET A LEAD, A
PARTICULAR INDIVIDUAL, YOU CAN
DO THIS SO-CALLED LINK ANALYSIS
TO TRY TO SEE WHO THEY'RE
CONNECTED TO AND YOU CAN SEE,
WELL, DO THEY HAVE -- IS THIS AN
OVERSEAS PERSON?
WHO HAS SOME SORT OF SIGNIFICANT
CONNECTION IN THE UNITED STATES?
IF SO, WHAT OTHER INVESTIGATIVE
ACTION CANS THEY TAKE?
WHAT OFFICIALS HAVE TAKEN PAINS
TO DESCRIBE IN RECENT DAYS IS
THAT THERE ARE VERY SPECIFIC
STANDARDS THAT THE INVESTIGATORS
HAVE TO ADHERE TO WHEN THEY WERE
GOING THROUGH DATABASE.
ONE OFFICIAL WHO I SPOKE WITH
YESTERDAY SAID THAT A FRACTION
OF 1% OF THE DATA HAS ACTUALLY
BEEN VIEWED IN THE COURSE OF
THESE SEARCHES.
>> Brown: CHARLIE, ONE MORE
JUST IN OUR LAST MINUTE HERE.
THERE'S BEEN TALK ABOUT WHEN
THIS INFORMATION -- WHEN
INVESTIGATORS GO TO THE COURTS.
THERE'S BEEN TALK ABOUT HOW MUCH
CONGRESS HAS BEEN NOTIFIED ABOUT
THESE PROGRAMS.
WHAT CAN YOU TELL US SO FAR?
>> WELL, WHAT APPEARS TO BE
CLEAR IS THAT A LOT OF PEOPLE IN
CONGRESS KNEW ABOUT THIS, WERE
WELL BRIEFED ABOUT IT AND
NOTWITHSTANDING SOME VOICES LIKE
SENATOR WIDEN IN PARTICULAR AND
MARK UDALL WHO HAVE B
ABOUT WHAT THIS SECTION OF THE
PATRIOT ACT IS UNDERLYING THIS
PHONE RECORD COLLECTION, THEY'VE
BEEN RAISING ALARMS ABOUT THAT
OE PEEKLY FOR YEARS, THEIR
COLLEAGUES WHO KNEW ABOUT THIS
THOUGHT IT WAS OKAY BECAUSE THEY
KEPT REAUTHORIZING THE LAW THAT
THIS IS BASED UPON.
SO PRESIDENT OBAMA'S DEFENSE
TODAY IS THIS IS NOT ILLEGAL,
ALL THREE BRANCHES OF GOVERNMENT
ARE ON BOARD FOR IT, THE COURTS
ARE OVERSEEING IT, CONGRESS
AUTHORIZED IT AND OVERSEES IT
AND SO THEREFORE THERE ARE NO
RULE OF LAW CONCERNS.
OBVIOUSLY CIVIL LIBERTARIANS
MIGHT BEG TO DIFFER ON
CONSTITUTIONAL GROUNDS BUT
CERTAINLY IT WILL BE AN UPHILL
CLIMB TO MAKE THAT CASE WITH
THREE BRANCHES OF GOVERNMENT
BEHIND IT.
>> Brown: OKAY, CHARLIE
SAVAGE, SIOBHAN GORE MAN, THANK
YOU VERY MUCH.
>> THANK YOU.
>> Woodruff: STILL TO COME ON
THE "NEWSHOUR": MARGARET WARNER
ON LEBANON'S SECTARIAN SPLIT;
SHIELDS AND BROOKS ON THE WEEK'S
NEWS AND THE HARROWING STORY OF
A SEARCH FOR A FATHER THAT
INSPIRED A NEW NOVEL.
BUT FIRST, THE OTHER NEWS OF THE
DAY.
HERE'S KWAME HOLMAN.
>> Holman: MORE PEOPLE WENT OUT
LOOKING FOR JOBS LAST MONTH, AND
MORE PEOPLE FOUND THEM.
THE LABOR DEPARTMENT REPORTED
THE MAY NUMBERS TODAY.
IT SAID UNEMPLOYMENT ROSE A-
TENTH OF A POINT TO 7.6%, AS THE
RANKS OF JOB SEEKERS GREW.
THE ECONOMY ACTUALLY ADDED
175,000 JOBS, ABOUT WHAT WAS
EXPECTED.
WALL STREET MOVED SHARPLY HIGHER
ON THE JOBS REPORT.
THE DOW JONES INDUSTRIAL AVERAGE
GAINED 207 POINTS TO CLOSE AT
15,248.
THE NASDAQ ROSE 45 POINTS TO
CLOSE AT 3,469.
FOR THE WEEK, THE DOW GAINED
NEARLY 1%.
THE NASDAQ ROSE 0.4%
GUNFIRE BROKE OUT TODAY NEAR A
COLLEGE IN SANTA MONICA,
CALIFORNIA.
POLICE SAID A MAN BEGAN FIRING
AT VEHICLES FROM A STREET
CORNER.
THEY SAID AT LEAST ONE PERSON
WAS KILLED AND SEVERAL WOUNDED.
ONE SUSPECT WAS IN CUSTODY.
AT THE TIME OF THE SHOOTING,
PRESIDENT OBAMA WAS ATTENDING A
FUND-RAISING LUNCHEON ABOUT
THREE MILES AWAY.
THE PRESIDENT WAS ALSO OPENING
TWO DAYS OF TALKS WITH HIS
CHINESE COUNTERPART, XI
JINGPING.
CYBER-SECURITY FIGURED HIGH ON
THE AGENDA.
THE U.S. HAS PUBLICLY ACCUSED
CHINA OF HACKING INTO AMERICAN
BUSINESS AND DEFENSE SYSTEMS.
CHINA DENIES IT.
PRESIDENT XI ARRIVED YESTERDAY
WITH HIS WIFE, AT ONTARIO
INTERNATIONAL AIRPORT OUTSIDE
LOS ANGELES.
THEY WERE GREETED BY CALIFORNIA
GOVERNOR JERRY BROWN.
THE F.B.I. ARRESTED AN EAST
TEXAS WOMAN TODAY FOR ALLEGEDLY
SENDING RICIN-TAINTED LETTERS TO
PRESIDENT OBAMA AND NEW YORK
MAYOR MICHAEL BLOOMBERG.
A THIRD LETTER WENT TO
BLOOMBERG'S GROUP THAT LOBBIES
FOR GUN CONTROL.
THE WOMAN WAS IDENTIFIED AS
SHARON GUESS RICHARDSON OF NEW
BOSTON.
THE F.B.I. SAID SHE INITIALLY
CLAIMED HER HUSBAND SENT THE
LETTERS.
THE U.S. SENATE FORMALLY OPENED
DEBATE TODAY ON A BILL TO
OVERHAUL THE COUNTRY'S
IMMIGRATION SYSTEM.
RAY SUAREZ HAS OUR REPORT.
>> Reporter: PROSPECTS FOR
IMMIGRATION REFORM HAVE BEEN
CLOUDED FOR YEARS, BUT SENATE
SUPPORTERS EXPRESSED HOPES TODAY
THEY CAN BREAK THROUGH.
>> THE MAJORITY LEADER...
>> Reporter: SENATE MAJORITY
LEADER, HARRY REID TALKED
OPTIMISTICALLY OF PASSING THE
FIRST OVERHAUL OF IMMIGRATION
LAWS SINCE 1986.
>> OURYST SEM IS BROKEN.
IT NEEDS TO BE FIXED.
IT IS GRATIFYING TO SEE THE
MOMENTUM BEHIND THIS PACKAGE OF
COMMON-SENSE REFORMS, WHICH WILL
>> Reporter: SIMILAR EFFORTS
DIED IN 2006 AND 2007,
AND OPPONENTS, INCLUDING ALABAMA
REPUBLICAN JEFF SESSIONS, ARGUED
THIS BILL IS NO BETTER BECAUSE
IT MEANS AMNESTY FIRST, BEFORE
BORDER SECURITY.
>> THE LEGISLATION RIGHT HERE
BEFORE US WOULD IMMEDIATELY GIVE
LEGAL STATUS, ALLOW PEOPLE TO
MOVE TOWARD LEGAL PERMANENT
RESIDENCE AND CITIZENSHIP LATER.
AND THEY HAVE TO PAY A FEW
>> Reporter: THE SENATE BILL
WORKED UP BY EIGHT SENATORS FROM
BOTH PARTIES WOULD PROVIDE A
PATHWAY TO CITIZENSHIP FOR AN
ESTIMATED 11 MILLION
UNDOCUMENTED PEOPLE IN A PROCESS
THAT WOULD TAKE 13 YEARS;
APPLICANTS WOULD HAVE TO PAY A
FINE AND BACK TAXES, LEARN
ENGLISH, AND PASS A CRIMINAL
BACKGROUND CHECK, AMONG OTHER
THINGS.
BUT FIRST, BACKERS NEED 60 VOTES
TO CLEAR A PROCEDURAL HURDLE AND
MOVE FORWARD TO WEEKS OF DEBATE
AND FINAL ACTION.
DEMOCRAT PATRICK LEAHY OF
VERMONT URGED SENATORS TODAY TO
LET THE PROCESS PLAY OUT.
>> WE REPRESENT OVER 300 MILLION
AMERICANS.
THEY'RE COUNTING ON US NOT TO
USE STALLING TACTICS BUT TO
STAND UP.
VOTE FOR, OR VOTE AGAINST.
>> Reporter: HOPING TO MUSTER
THOSE 60 VOTES, MAJORITY LEADER
REID PLEDGED TO ALLOW AS MANY
AMENDMENTS AS POSSIBLE, WITH A
DEADLINE OF JULY FOURTH TO
FINISH WORK.
UTAH REPUBLICAN MIKE LEE
DISMISSED THAT OFFER.
>> THERE IS NO SERIES OF
TINKERING CHANGES THAT WILL TURN
THIS MESS OF A BILL INTO THE
REFORM THE COUNTRY NEEDS AND
THAT AMERICANS DESERVE.
>> Reporter: MEANWHILE, IN THE
HOUSE, BIPARTISAN TALKS ARE
ONGOING, BUT REPUBLICAN RAUL
LABRADOR OF IDAHO PULLED OUT
THIS WEEK OVER OBJECTIONS
RELATED TO IMMIGRANT HEALTH
CARE.
AND YESTERDAY, THE CHAMBER VOTED
ALONG PARTY LINES TO BLOCK
FUNDING FOR A 2012 PRESIDENTIAL
ORDER THAT DELAYS DEPORTATIONS
OF YOUNG, UNDOCUMENTED
IMMIGRANTS.
>> Holman: MICHIGAN CONGRESSMAN
JOHN DINGELL IS NOW THE LONGEST
SERVING MEMBER OF CONGRESS,
EVER.
AFTER 57 YEARS IN OFFICE, HE
PASSED THE LATE WEST VIRGINIA
SENATOR ROBERT BYRD TODAY.
THE VETERAN DEMOCRAT IS 86, AND
WAS FIRST ELECTED IN 1955.
HE SUPPORTED LANDMARK CIVIL
RIGHTS LEGLATIISON IN THE 1960'S
AND ALSO PLAYED A KEY ROLE IN
CREATING THE MEDICARE PROGRAM.
TROPICAL STORM ANDREA LOST SOME
PUNCH TODAY AS IT BLEW ACROSS
GEORGIA AND THE CAROLINAS.
SUSTAINED WINDS DROPPED TO 45
MILES AN HOUR, BUT THE STORM
STILL WAS STRONG ENOUGH TO WHIP
UP HEAVY SURF.
IT ALSO WAS DUMPING AS MUCH AS
SIX INCHES OF RAIN AS IT PASSED.
ANDREA MADE LANDFALL YESTERDAY
ON FLORIDA'S GULF COAST.
THE GRAY WOLF MAY LOSE MOST OF
ITS REMAINING WILDLIFE
PROTECTIONS AGAINST HUNTING AND
TRAPPING, IN THE LOWER 48
STATES.
THE U.S. FISH AND WILDLIFE
SERVICE PROPOSED THE MOVE TODAY,
OVER THE OBJECTION OF
ENVIRONMENTAL GROUPS.
THE WOLVES WERE PLACED ON THE
ENDANGERED SPECIES LIST IN 1974.
THERE ARE NOW MORE THAN 6,100 IN
ACROSS TEN STATES.
THOSE ARE SOME OF THE DAY'S
MAJOR STORIES.
NOW, BACK TO JEFF.
>> Brown: IN THE FINAL STORY OF
HER OVERSEAS REPORTING TRIP TO
LEBANON, MARGARET WARNER LOOKS
AT THE TENUOUS PEACE AMONG THE
COUNTRY'S VARIOUS RELIGIOUS
SECTS AND WHETHER IT CAN SURVIVE
AS THE CONFLICT IN SYRIA MOVES
DEEPER INSIDE LEBANON'S BORDERS.
>> Reporter: IN A HIGH END
JEWELRY STORE IN THE HAMRA
DISTRICT OF BEIRUT, OWNER ELIE
NAWBAR IS ENTERTAINING A DIVERSE
SET OF FRIENDS.
>> HE IS A SHIITE, AND I'M A
CHRISTIAN, AND HE'S A MUSLIM
SUNNI, AND WE LIVE TOGETHER.
AND I'M VERY CLOSE FRIENDS.
>> Reporter: AND YOU WANT TO
KEEP IT THAT WAY.
>> YES.
THIS IS LEBANON.
>> Reporter: NAWBAR SPENT MUCH
OF LEBANON'S BRUTAL 15-YEAR
CIVIL WAR, ENDING IN 1990, IN
LONDON, BUT HE'S BACK IN
BUSINESS HERE AND CONVINCED THAT
EVEN UNDER THE SECTARIAN STRAINS
INFLAMED BY SYRIA'S CIVIL WAR
NEXT DOOR, HIS COUNTRYMEN WON'T
LET IT HAPPEN AGAIN IN LEBANON.
>> AND THEY KNOW WHAT THIS
MEANS: WAR.
NOBODY WANTS IT ANYMORE.
>> Reporter: BUT PLENTY OF OTHER
LEBANESE AREN'T SO CONFIDENT, AS
THEY LIVE AMID REMINDS OFER THE
CITY'S SAVAGE PAST.
PEOPLE FROM ALL WALKS OF LIFE,
LIKE THIS STORE CLERK ON
BEIRUT'S WATERFRONT PROMENADE.
>> (translated): PEOPLE HERE
DON'T LIKE EACH OTHER.
IT'S NOT EASY TO LIVE HERE
ANYMORE.
THE SITUATION IN SYRIA IS
AFFECTING LEBANON, AND ALL THE
PEOPLE HERE ARE SCARED.
>> Reporter: SHARING HER FEARS
ON THE WATER'S EDGE BELOW, A 50-
YEAR OLD FISHERMAN WHO LIVED
THROUGH THE CIVIL WAR.
>> (translated): PEOPLE ARE
VERY SCARED, BUT WHAT CAN WE DO?
>> Reporter: NO WONDER THEY'RE
SCARED: AS MILITIAS OF LEBANON'S
SHIITE PARTY HEZBOLLAH FIGHT FOR
THEIR SYRIAN ALLY, PRESIDENT
BASHAR AL ASSAD, SECTARIAN
FIGHTING PLAGUES TRIPOLI; AND
SUNNI AND SHIITE VILLAGES IN THE
BEKAA VALLEY SUFFER REGULAR
ROCKET STRIKES.
ALL THIS IS PUTTING AT RISK THE
DELICATE AGREEMENT MADE AFTER
THE CIVIL WAR, GIVING SUNNI AND
SH MUSIALIMS, CHRISTIANS AND 15
OTHER SECTS EACH A PIECE OF THE
GOVERNING POWER PIE.
SO SAYS PAUL SALEM, DIRECTOR OF
THE CARNEGIE MIDDLE EAST CENTER.
>> THE LEBANESE HAVE FOUND A WAY
TO COEXIST AND MANAGE THEIR
TENSIONS WITHOUT MAJOR
CONFRONTATION.
THAT ARRANGEMENT IS COMING UNDER
A LOT OF STRESS BECAUSE OF THE
CONFLICT IN SYRIA.
>> HASSAN NASRALLAH, WHAT HE DID
EFFECTIVELY HE ENTRAPPED LEBANON
INTO THE SYRIAN QUAGMIRE.
>> Reporter: HEZBOLLAH'S
ENGAGEMENT IN THE SYRIA
CONFLICT, LED BY HASSAN
NASRULLAH, HAS ANGERED MANY
INCLUDING: FORMER PRIME MINISTER
FOUAD SINIORA.
>> THIS IS ENDANGERING THE
POLITICAL SITUATION, THE SOCIAL
COHESION OF THE ENTIRE COUNTRY,
AS WELL AS THE ECONOMIC AND
SOCIAL CONSEQUENCES IN LEBANON
THAT ARE VERY DEVASTATING.
>> Reporter: AS HEAD OF A
MODERATE, LARGELY SUNNI BLOC IN
PARLIAMENT, SINIORA JOINED WITH
OTHER FACTIONS TO FORGE AN
OFFICIAL GOVERNMENT POLICY OF
NEUTRALITY IN THE SYRIA
CONFLICT.
BUT THAT POLICY WAS ALWAYS A
SHAM, SAYS NEWSPAPER EDITOR
IBRAHIM AL AMINE, WHO IS CLOSE
TO HEZBOLLAH AND ITS LEADER.
>> (translated): NO LEBANESE
CAN SAY HE IS NOT CONCERNED WITH
WHAT IS GOING ON IN SYRIA.
IN LEBANON, THERE ARE TWO SIDES:
ONE FORCE SUPPORTING THE SYRIAN
REGIME AND ANOTHER SUPPORTING
THE OPPOSITION.
THE FORCES SUPPORTING THE
OPPOSITION STARTED ACTING ON THE
GROUND FIRST, BEFORE HEZBOLLAH
DID.
THE DIFFERENCE IS, HEZBOLLAH'S
CAPACITIES ARE MUCH GREATER.
>> Reporter: THERE'S LITTLE
DISPUTE ABOUT THE ECONOMIC
DAMAGE THE SYRIAN WAR HAS
BROUGHT HERE.
ON A VISIT TO HEZBOLLAH-
DOMINATED BAALBEK, HOME TO
MAJESTIC ROMAN RUINS, CAB DRIVER
SAYED HASSAN TRIED TO INSIST
TOURISTS WERE STILL COMING,
UNTIL A FELLOW CABBIE JUMD INPE.
>> (translated): WHAT IS WRONG
WITH YOU?
YOU TELL THEM THERE ARE
TOURISTS?
LOOK INSIDE THE SHOPS, THEY ARE
ALL EMPTY!
THERE IS NOT WORK AND NO TOURISM
HERE.
>> Reporter: BUSINESS IS BAD
DOWN THE ROAD IN MASHGARA TOO
FOR THIS OWNER OF A ROADSIDE
SHAWARMA EATERY, NOW THAT MOST
LEGAL TRATE BETWEEN LEBANON AND
SYRIA HAS BEEN SHUT DOWN.
>> (translated): HE ETCONOMY
HAS BECOME VERY BAD BECAUSE ALL
THE PRODUCTS I GOT WERE CHEAPER
AND CAME FROM SYRIA.
NOW EVERYTHING IS VERY EXPENSIVE
BECAUSE THE ROAD IS CLOSED.
>> Reporter: THIS BUSINESS OWNER
ALSO HAPPENS TO BE A SHIITE
REFUGEE FROM SYRIA, WHO FLED
AFTER SUNNI REBELS BURNED OUT
HIS RESTAURANT AND HOME NEAR
DAMASCUS.
HE'S PART OF ANOTHER WAR-RELATED
STRESS ON LEBANON-- THE WAVES OF
SYRIAN REFUGEES.
AND HE IS ONE OF THE LUCKIER
ONES IN THE SHADOW OF A NEW,
SAUDI-FUNDED MOSQUE OUTSIDE THE
SUNNI BORDER TOWN OF ARSAL, WE
FOUND THE UNLUCKY ONES,
STRUGGLING TO PUT UP TENTS.
MOST DIDN'T BRING MONEY, BUT
MANY BROUGHT NEW-FOUND SECTARIAN
PASSIONS.
30-YEAR OLD SUNNI KHADIJA JAMAL
ALAHMAD TREKKED HERE WITH HER
TEN CHILDREN AFTER HER HUSBAND
WAS SHOT.
>> (translated): THE SHIITES
ATTACKED US AND THEY LEFT
NOTHING.
THEY BURNED THE HOUSE AND WE HAD
A SHOP BUT IT IS ALL GONE NOW.
>> Reporter: HOW DO YOU EXPLAIN
TO YOUR CHILDREN WHY THEY ARE
HERE AND WHY YOU LEFT?
>> THE CHILDREN KNOW EVERYTHING.
I DON'T SAY ANYTHING TO THEM.
THEY SAW HOW PEOPLE WERE BEING
KILLED AND HOW THE FIGHTING WAS
GOING ON.
>> Reporter: HOW DO YOU FEEL NOW
ABOUT SHIAS?
>> (translated): I HATE THEM.
>> Reporter: ALL SHIA?
>> (translated): YES.
ALL OF THEM.
>> Reporter: EVEN WITH AN INFLUX
OF ONE MILLION REFUGEES INTO A
COUNTRY OF JUST FOUR MILLION,
THE GOVERNMENT WON'T ALLOW
OFFICIAL CAMPS.
SO POORER SYRIANS MAKE DO IN
GARAGES OR EMPTY BUILDINGS.
WORKING AND MIDDLE-CLASS SYRIANS
HAVE RENTED APARTMENTS, DRIVING
UP PRICES.
TRIPOLI RESTAURANT MANAGER ROULA
SIDAWI SAYS THEY ARE ALSO TAKING
LEBANESE JOBS:
>> (translated): THE SYRIAN
WORKER GETS PAID TEN TIMES LESS
THAN THE LEBANESE WORKER, SO THE
BOSS FIRES THE LEBANESE AND
HIRES THE REFUGEES.
>> Reporter: SO IS THERE
RESENTMENT AMONG LEBANESE OF THE
SYRIAN REFUGEES?
>> (translated): A LOT.
>> Reporter: THE TIDAL WAVE OF
MOSTLY SUNNI REFUGEES COULD ALSO
UPSET THE DEMOGRAPHIC BALANCE IN
LEBANON, AMONG SUNNIS AND SHIAS.
AND A MAJOR COMBATANT IN
LEBANON'S CIVIL WAR, THE
CHRISTIANS, THOUGH THEY'RE AN
ESTIMATED 35% OF THE POPULATIO
MANY WORRY THEY'LL BE PERSECUTED
OR DRIVEN OUT, AS CHRISTIANS IN
IRAQ AND EGYPT WERE, AFTER
POLITICAL UPHEAVAL BROUGHT
ISLAMISTS TO THE FORE.
AT A MOUNTAINTOP SHRINE TO THE
VIRGIN MARY, JOELLE KARAM VOICED
THAT FEAR.
>> CHRISTIANS HERE ARE LEAVING
THE COUNTRY, THEY ARE LEAVING
LEBANON.
>> Reporter: BUT BEIRUT'S
MELKITE GREEK CATHOLIC
ARHCBISHOP, CYRIL BUSTROS, SAYS
CHRISTIANS HERE NEED NOT FEAR OR
FLEE, IF THEY KEEP THEIR HEADS
DOWN.
>> (translated): THEY CANNOT
BE CAUGHT IN THE WAR IF THEY
DON'T COLLABORATE IN AND
PARTICIPATE IN THE WAR.
2,000 YEARS WE ARE HERE AND
THERE IS NO WAY THAT WE WILL
AVELE THE COUNTRY TO THE
MUSLIMS.
SO WE HAVE TO STAY HERE.
>> Reporter: BUT ON A CAREFREE
NIGHT, THE KIND THAT MAKES
BEIRUT A MAGNET FOR SO MANY IN
THE MIDDLE EAST, YOUNG PARTYERS
OF ALL SECTS TOLD US THEY WOULD
JUST AS SOON LEAVE, THAN WATCH
THEIR COUNTRY SLIDE, AGAIN,
TOWARD INSTABILITY.
SO DID THREE FRIENDS WHO HAD
SOUGHT OUT A QUIET RESTAURANT
NEARBY.
ZALFA HALABI IS DUE TO GRADUATE
SOON FROM PRESTIGIOUS AMERICAN
UNIVERSITY OF BEIRUT.
>> WE'RE NOT SURE WHAT'S GOING
TO HAPPEN NEXT, AND SO OUR LIVES
ARE SORT OF ON HOLD, NOT
>> Reporter: BUT GRAPHIC ARTIST
BANE FAKIH, ALSO ON THE VERGE OF
GRADUATING, DREAMS OF BRITISH
COLUMBIA, NOT BEIRUTBANE FAKIH.
>> I REALLY DON'T WANT TO LIVE
WHAT MY PARENTS LIVED, BECAUSE I
KNOW, THEY TOLD US STUFF, AND IT
SEEMS REALLY UGLY.
>> Reporter: AMIDST THE REVELRY
THAT IS STILL BEIRUT, A SOBERING
WARNING FOR LEBANON.
>> Brown: ON OUR WORLD PAGE,
READ PERSONAL STORIES OF THREE
SYRIAN REFUGEES WHO FLED TO
LEBANON.
>> Brown: AND TO THE ANALYSIS OF
SHIELDS AND BROOKS, SYNDICATED
COLUMNIST MARK SHIELDS AND "NEW
YORK TIMES" COLUMNIST DAVID
BROOKS.
HELLO, GENTLEMEN.
SO, FIRST THIS REVELATION OVER
THE LAST FEW DAYS THAT THE U.S.
GOVERNMENT IS COLLECTING MASSIVE
AMOUNTS OF INFORMATION, PHONE
RECORDS OF U.S. CITIZENS, DAVID
AND LISTENING TO OR COLLECTING
INTERNET E-MAIL COMMUNICATIONS
OF FOREIGN CITIZENS.
REACTION?
>> WELL, IT'S WORRISOME.
I, ON BALANCE, THINK IT'S
JUSTIFIED.
I THINK THE PRESIDENT'S
BASICALLY RIGHT ON THIS AND THE
MOST BIPARTISAN LEADERS OF
CONGRESS ARE RIGHT.
WE LIVE IN A WORLD OF BIG DATA.
WE LIVE IN THE WORLD OF GIGANTIC
DATABASES WHERE PEOPLE ARE
COLLECTING LARGE AMOUNTS OF
INFORMATION.
THE STUFF BEING DONE ON AMERICAN
CITIZENS IS NOT THE CONTENT OF
THE CALLS, IT'S THE NETWORK OF
CONNECTIONS.
THERE IS A FISA COURT REVIEW,
THERE'S CONGRESSIONAL REVIEW,
THE TARGETS ARE REASONABLY
NARROW.
I WORRY ABOUT THIS BEING ABUSED
LATER ON.
BUT AS I UNDERSTAND THE PROGRAM
RIGHT NOW I THINK IT'S A
REASONABLY SUPERVISED POLICY TO
TRY TO CONTROL TERROR AND
BALANCE IT OFF WITH THE NORMAL
PRIVACY CONCERNS.
>> Woodruff: NOT TROUBLED BY
IT, MARK.
>> TO THOSE IN AMERICA THAT WERE
WORRIED THAT THOSE IN WASHINGTON
AREN'T LISTENING TO WHAT THEY
HAVE TO SAY, THEY OUGHT TO BE
REASSURED.
JUDY, EVERY ADMINISTRATION SINCE
I'VE BEEN IN WASHINGTON HAS A
BOTTOMLESS APPETITE FOR SECRECY
AND INFORMATION AND INTELLIGENCE
TAEUFPLT JUST LOVE IT.
I DON'T KNOW WHAT IT IS
PRESIDENTS BUT WE TALK SO
GLOWINGLY ABOUT THE NEED FOR AN
INFORMED CITIZENRY AND YET THEY
GET INFORMATION, THEY WANT TO
HOLD IT AND IT'S WHAT DANIEL
PATRICK MOYNIHAN CALLED THE
CULTURE OF SECRECY IS EPIDEMIC
IN THIS CITY AND I WOULD JUST
SAY TO MY FRIEND ON THE LEFT WHO
DEFEND THIS THAT DO YOU IMAGINE
THE SAME KIND OF POWER AND
AUTHORITY WITH PRESIDENT DONALD
TRUMP?
WITH A PRESIDENT RICK PERRY?
WITH A PRESIDENT RICK SANTORUM?
IT'S ONE THING TO SAY, OH WELL,
PRESIDENT OBAMA IS SENSITIVE AND
ALL OF THESE THINGS.
I JUST -- I REALLY THINK IT'S A
REAL PROBLEM.
IT'S BEEN A PROBLEM IN THIS
COUNTRY.
WE CLASSIFY TOO MUCH.
WE KEEP TOO MUCH FROM OUR
CITIZENS AND THIS IS AN EXAMPLE,
I THINK, OF IT'S GOING TOO FAR.
>> I AGREE IN PART WE HAVE A
NATIONAL SECURITY STATE WHICH IS
GIGANTIC AND OVERBLOWN.
HUNDREDS OF THOUSANDS OF PEOPLE
HAVE TOP SECURITY CLEARANCE SO I
AGREE WITH THAT PART.
AND I AGREE WITH THE PENCHANT
FOR SECRECY.
I BLAME IT ON THE FACT THAT IF
YOU'RE IN THE NATIONAL SECURITY
APPARATUS YOUR DISASTER IF
THERE'S AN EVENT SO YOU'LL DO
ANYTHING POSSIBLE TO PREVENT AN
EVENT BUT YOUR CAREER WON'T HANG
ON IF SOMEBODY'S PRIVACY IS
VIOLATE SOD THEIR INTERESTS ARE
ALL OVER HERE.
I WORRY ABOUT THAT, TOO.
NONETHELESS, WHEN YOU FIGHT WARS
OR WHEN YOU INVOLVE
INTERNATIONAL CONFLICT CONFLICTE
THERE ARE ENEMIES YOU HAVE TO
HAVE -- CITIZENS HAVE TO HAVE
SOME TRUST IN THE AUTHORITIES.
AUTHORITIES HAVE TO HAVE SOME
POWER TO DO THINGS THAT THEY
THINK ARE RIGHT.
AND AS LONG AS THERE'S A COURT
REVIEW-- AS THER THERE IS-- AS G
AS THERE'S SOME OVERSIGHT, WE AS
CITIZENS HAVE TO SAY WE'LL TRUST
THE AUTHORITIES TO SOME DEGREE.
>> Woodruff: THAT'S WHAT THE
PRESIDENT SAID TODAY, RIGHT?
HE SAID THERE ARE PROTECTIONS,
THERE'S THE CONSTITUTION, THE
SO-CALLED FISA COURT.
>> THE FISA COURT I HAVE YET TO
SEE A DECISION MADE BY THE FISA
COURT.
IT'S A --
>> Woodruff: THIS IS A SPECIAL
COURT THAT WAS SET UP A FEW
YEARS AGO.
>> 11 JUDGES BUT WE DON'T KNOW
WHAT GOES ON.
ONE SIDE PRESENTS AND I DON'T
KNOW OF THE NUMBER OF REJECTIONS
THAT THE FISA COURT HAS GIVEN.
I GUESS WHERE I DISAGREE WITH
DAVID IS IT'S VERY SEDUCTIVE TO
BECOME PART OF THIS INTELLIGENCE
COMMUNITY.
BECAUSE WE'RE DOING IT BECAUSE
WE'RE PROTECTING YOU.
WE'RE TAKING CARE OF YOU.
WE'RE GOING TO MAKE SURE YOU'RE
SAFE AND ANYTHING THAT'S DONE IN
THAT NAME.
WE WENT THROUGH THE ENTIRE COLD
WAR, THAT WAS A REAL THREAT.
THAT WAS A REAL THREAT.
AND THE SOVIET UNION AND THE
INTELLIGENCE COMMUNITY-- WHICH
WAS CLOSED OFF AND COMPLETELY
CLOISTERED AND NOBODY COULD GO
NEAR IT-- WAS ABSOLUTELY WRONG.
AS LATE AS 1989 IT WAS SAYING
THE SOVIET UNION WAS GETTING
STRONGER ECONOMICALLY,
MILITARILY, IT WAS A BIGGER
THREAT THAN IT WAS AND GEORGE
CANON PREDICTED 50 YEARS EARLIER
IT WOULD IMPLODE, THE SEEDS OF
ITS OWN DESTRUCTION WERE THERE.
AND I THINK THAT YOU HAVE TO
TRUST YOUR CITIZENRY.
YOU HAVE TO OPEN UP TO DEBATE.
BARACK OBAMA RAN ON TRANSPARENCY
AND OPEN DEBATE.
I DON'T SEE THAT BEING PRESENT
IN THIS.
>> Pelley: .
>> A COUPLE THINGS.
FIRST, WE LIVE AN AGE OF DATA.
WHAT THE GOVERNMENT HAS DONE TO
OUR PHONE RECORDS, PRIVATE
COMPANIES ARE DOING THAT EVERY
SINGLE DAY.
IF YOU HAVE A CREDIT CARD,
THEY'RE LOOKING AT THE VAST
ARRAY OF SPENDING PATTERNS EVERY
SINGLE DAY.
THIS IS HAPPENING TO US EVERY
THIS IS PART OF THE AGE WE LIVE
SINGLE DAY.
IN.
THIS IS PART OF THE AGE WE LIVE
SHOULD WE HAVE KNOWN THAT THEY
IN.
ARE DOING THIS TO THE PHONE
SHOULD WE HAVE KNOWN THAT THEY
RECORDS?
ARE DOING THIS TO THE PHONE
TO SOME EXTENT WE ALREADY DID
RECORDS?
KNOW THIS BUT WE PROBABLY SHOULD
TO SOME EXTENT WE ALREADY DID
HAVE KNOWN.
KNOW THIS BUT WE PROBABLY SHOULD
THE SECRECY OF THE PROGRAM WAS A
HAVE KNOWN.
MISTAKE, I AGREE.
THE SECRECY OF THE PROGRAM WAS A
>> Woodruff: IN OTHER WORDS,
MISTAKE, I AGREE.
YOU'RE SAYING THE GOVERNMENT
>> Woodruff: IN OTHER WORDS,
SHOULD HAVE TOLD EVERYBODY
YOU'RE SAYING THE GOVERNMENT
"WE'RE DOING THIS."
SHOULD HAVE TOLD EVERYBODY
BUT THEN THE OTHER ARGUMENT IS
"WE'RE DOING THIS."
THEY'RE TELLING THE TERRORISTS.
BUT THEN THE OTHER ARGUMENT IS
>> IF YOU'RE AA TERRORIST YOU
THEY'RE TELLING THE TERRORISTS.
ASSUME THE PHONE RECORDS ARE
>> IF YOU'RE AA TERRORIST YOU
BEING USED IN THIS WAY.
ASSUME THE PHONE RECORDS ARE
BUT THEY STILL HAVE THE
BEING USED IN THIS WAY.
RESPONSIBILITY IF THEY SEE
BUT THEY STILL HAVE THE
SOMEBODY -- IF THEY SEE THESE
RESPONSIBILITY IF THEY SEE
BOSTON GUYS, THE BOMBERS,
SOMEBODY -- IF THEY SEE THESE
CALLING SOME NUMBER AND THEN
BOSTON GUYS, THE BOMBERS,
THEY WANT TO TRACE THE LINKS TO
CALLING SOME NUMBER AND THEN
THAT NUMBER, IT SEEMS TO ME
THEY WANT TO TRACE THE LINKS TO
THAT'S A LEGITIMATE PIECE OF
THAT NUMBER, IT SEEMS TO ME
INFORMATION THAT THEY SHOULD
THAT'S A LEGITIMATE PIECE OF
HAVE.
INFORMATION THAT THEY SHOULD
NOW, THE SECOND QUESTION IS--
HAVE.
AND CHARLIE SAVAGE, MY
NOW, THE SECOND QUESTION IS--
COLLEAGUE, RAISED THIS EARLIER--
AND CHARLIE SAVAGE, MY
SHOULD WE JUST -- IAD OF DATA,
COLLEAGUE, RAISED THIS EARLIER--
WHEN THEY HAVE A SUSPICION
SHOULD WE JUST -- IAD OF DATA,
SHOULD THEY HAVE TO GO BACK AND
WHEN THEY HAVE A SUSPICION
GET A SEPARATE SUBPOENA SO IT'S
SHOULD THEY HAVE TO GO BACK AND
A MUCH NARROWER SET OF DATA?
GET A SEPARATE SUBPOENA SO IT'S
THAT SEEMS TO BE A LEGITIMATE
A MUCH NARROWER SET OF DATA?
ARGUMENT WE HAVE TO HEAR
THAT SEEMS TO BE A LEGITIMATE
ANSWERED.
ARGUMENT WE HAVE TO HEAR
>> CAN I JUST RESPOND TO DAVID'S
ANSWERED.
POINT ABOUT VISA AND MASTERCARD
>> CAN I JUST RESPOND TO DAVID'S
AND MY SAOEUFWAY CARD?HETHER I T
POINT ABOUT VISA AND MASTERCARD
BEN & JERRY'S AND I SHOULD
AND MY SAOEUFWAY CARD?HETHER I T
HAVEN'T BOUGHT BEN & JERRY'S
BEN & JERRY'S AND I SHOULD
LAST WEEK BUT VISA AND
HAVEN'T BOUGHT BEN & JERRY'S
MASTERCARD, THEY HAVE THAT
LAST WEEK BUT VISA AND
INFORMATION AND WE KNOW THEY
MASTERCARD, THEY HAVE THAT
HAVE THAT INFORMATION.
INFORMATION AND WE KNOW THEY
THEY CAN'T INDICT YOU.
HAVE THAT INFORMATION.
THEY CAN'T --
THEY CAN'T INDICT YOU.
>> FAIR ENOUGH.
THEY CAN'T --
>> THEY CAN'T GO AFTER MY TAXES.
>> FAIR ENOUGH.
I MEAN, A FEDERAL GOVERNMENT
>> THEY CAN'T GO AFTER MY TAXES.
WITH THAT KIND OF POERW AND
I MEAN, A FEDERAL GOVERNMENT
WITHOUT RESTRAINT CAN DO THAT.
WITH THAT KIND OF POERW AND
I MEAN, IT'S REALLY GIVING AN
WITHOUT RESTRAINT CAN DO THAT.
ENORMOUS AMOUNT OF POWER.
I MEAN, IT'S REALLY GIVING AN
>> THAT'S FAIR ENOUGH.
ENORMOUS AMOUNT OF POWER.
IF I COULD MAKE ONE POLITICAL
>> THAT'S FAIR ENOUGH.
POINT.
IF I COULD MAKE ONE POLITICAL
USUALLY-- AND THIS IS ARGUING
POINT.
AGAINST MY POINT SORT OF-- THE
USUALLY-- AND THIS IS ARGUING
PEOPLE, THE VOTERS MORE OR LESS
AGAINST MY POINT SORT OF-- THE
SIDE WITH SECURITY.
PEOPLE, THE VOTERS MORE OR LESS
BUT FOLLOWING THE I.R.S.
SIDE WITH SECURITY.
SCANDAL, FOLLOWING THE OTHER
BUT FOLLOWING THE I.R.S.
AFFAIRS, THE JUSTICE DEPARTMENT
SCANDAL, FOLLOWING THE OTHER
STUFF, I THINK THE POLITICS OF
AFFAIRS, THE JUSTICE DEPARTMENT
THIS MAY SWITCH -- THERE MAY BE
STUFF, I THINK THE POLITICS OF
MORE -- PEOPLE MAY BE MORE
THIS MAY SWITCH -- THERE MAY BE
APPALLED BY THIS PROGRAM.
MORE -- PEOPLE MAY BE MORE
>> Woodruff: QUICKLY TO BOTH
APPALLED BY THIS PROGRAM.
OF YOU.
>> Woodruff: QUICKLY TO BOTH
YOU BOTH AGREE THE MEDIA WAS
OF YOU.
RIGHT.
YOU BOTH AGREE THE MEDIA WAS
THE NEWS ORGANIZATIONS WERE
RIGHT.
RIGHT TO REPORT THIS ONCE THEY
THE NEWS ORGANIZATIONS WERE
FOUND OUT?
RIGHT TO REPORT THIS ONCE THEY
THAT THAT'S NOT A VIOLATION.
FOUND OUT?
>> I DO.
THAT THAT'S NOT A VIOLATION.
>> Woodruff: ALL RIGHT, LET'S
>> I DO.
MOVE ON TO ANOTHER ANNOUNCEMENT
>> Woodruff: ALL RIGHT, LET'S
THIS WEEK, DAVID.
MOVE ON TO ANOTHER ANNOUNCEMENT
THE PRESIDENT ANNOUNCED THAT
THIS WEEK, DAVID.
HE'S -- WANTS SUSAN RICE, THE
THE PRESIDENT ANNOUNCED THAT
U.N. AMBASSADOR, TO BECOME HIS
HE'S -- WANTS SUSAN RICE, THE
NATIONAL SECURITY ADVISOR.
U.N. AMBASSADOR, TO BECOME HIS
A WOMAN WHO'S BEEN AN HIS
NATIONAL SECURITY ADVISOR.
NATIONAL SECURITY COUNCIL STAFF
A WOMAN WHO'S BEEN AN HIS
MASAMANTHA POWER TO BE HIS U.N.
NATIONAL SECURITY COUNCIL STAFF
AMBASSADOR.
MASAMANTHA POWER TO BE HIS U.N.
WHAT DOES IT MEAN?
AMBASSADOR.
>> I THINK THEY'RE OUTSTANDING
WHAT DOES IT MEAN?
PICKS.
>> I THINK THEY'RE OUTSTANDING
HE HAS TENDED TO PICK PEOPLE WHO
PICKS.
ARE MORE STAFF-ORIENTED, MORE
HE HAS TENDED TO PICK PEOPLE WHO
PROCESS ORIENTED.
ARE MORE STAFF-ORIENTED, MORE
BUT POWER AND RICE ARE -- THEY
PROCESS ORIENTED.
CAN DO PROCESS FINE BUT THEY ARE
BUT POWER AND RICE ARE -- THEY
STRONG ADVOCATES FOR POSITIONS.
CAN DO PROCESS FINE BUT THEY ARE
THEY'RE IDEA-ORIENTED.
STRONG ADVOCATES FOR POSITIONS.
THEY'RE AGGRESSIVE, STRONG
THEY'RE IDEA-ORIENTED.
INDIVIDUALS SO I THINK THEY WILL
THEY'RE AGGRESSIVE, STRONG
WIDEN THE FRAME OF DEBATE.
INDIVIDUALS SO I THINK THEY WILL
SO I THINK THEY'RE OUTSTANDING
WIDEN THE FRAME OF DEBATE.
PICKS ON THAT REGARD.
SO I THINK THEY'RE OUTSTANDING
AS FAR AS WHETHER THEY SHIFT
PICKS ON THAT REGARD.
FOREIGN POLICY ONE WAY OR THE
AS FAR AS WHETHER THEY SHIFT
OTHER, THEY'RE KNOWN AS -- I
FOREIGN POLICY ONE WAY OR THE
GUESS THE PHRASE IS LIBERAL
OTHER, THEY'RE KNOWN AS -- I
HAWKS.
GUESS THE PHRASE IS LIBERAL
THEY'RE WILLING TO USE POWER TO
HAWKS.
PREVENT HUMANITARIAN DISASTERS
THEY'RE WILLING TO USE POWER TO
IN SOME CIRCUMSTANCES.
PREVENT HUMANITARIAN DISASTERS
THEY WERE BOTH AMONG THE MORE
IN SOME CIRCUMSTANCES.
AGGRESSIVE FORCES ON WHETHER WE
THEY WERE BOTH AMONG THE MORE
SHOULD DO LIBYA.
AGGRESSIVE FORCES ON WHETHER WE
THAT'S NOT TO SAY ALL
SHOULD DO LIBYA.
CIRCUMSTANCES.
THAT'S NOT TO SAY ALL
THEY HAVE NOT BEEN AGGRESSIVE AS
CIRCUMSTANCES.
FAR AS I KNOW ON SYRIA, FOR
THEY HAVE NOT BEEN AGGRESSIVE AS
EXAMPLE.
FAR AS I KNOW ON SYRIA, FOR
BUT THEY TEND TO BE A LITTLE
EXAMPLE.
MORE AGGRESSIVE ON WANTING TO
BUT THEY TEND TO BE A LITTLE
PREVENT HUMANITARIAN DISASTERS
MORE AGGRESSIVE ON WANTING TO
BELIEVING IS IT'N AMERICA'S
PREVENT HUMANITARIAN DISASTERS
FOREIGN POLICY INTEREST.
BELIEVING IS IT'N AMERICA'S
SO I THINK THEY'RE BOTH
FOREIGN POLICY INTEREST.
OUTSTANDING.
SO I THINK THEY'RE BOTH
>> Woodruff: DO YOU AGREE?
OUTSTANDING.
>> I DON'T QUESTION DAVID'S
>> Woodruff: DO YOU AGREE?
ASSESSMENT OF EITHER INDIVIDUAL.
>> I DON'T QUESTION DAVID'S
I FIND IT FASCINATE THAT WHEN
ASSESSMENT OF EITHER INDIVIDUAL.
BARACK OBAMA BECAME PRESIDENT
I FIND IT FASCINATE THAT WHEN
THAT HIS SECRETARY OF STATE WAS
BARACK OBAMA BECAME PRESIDENT
HILLARY CLINTON, THE SECRETARY
THAT HIS SECRETARY OF STATE WAS
OF DEFENSE WAS BOB GATES.
HILLARY CLINTON, THE SECRETARY
NOW HE HAS HIS NATIONAL SECURITY
OF DEFENSE WAS BOB GATES.
ADVISOR WITH JIM GENERAL JONES
NOW HE HAS HIS NATIONAL SECURITY
FORMER COMMANDANT OF THE MARINE
ADVISOR WITH JIM GENERAL JONES
CORPS.
FORMER COMMANDANT OF THE MARINE
NOW HE HAS IN POSITION CHUCK
CORPS.
HAGEL AT SECRETARY OF DEFENSE,
NOW HE HAS IN POSITION CHUCK
JOHN KERRY AS SECRETARY OF STATE
HAGEL AT SECRETARY OF DEFENSE,
WHO WILL SOON HAVE SUSAN RICE AS
JOHN KERRY AS SECRETARY OF STATE
NATIONAL SECURITY ADVISOR AND
WHO WILL SOON HAVE SUSAN RICE AS
PENDING SENATE RATIFICATION MAN?
NATIONAL SECURITY ADVISOR AND
THAT POWER AS U.N. AMBASSADOR.
PENDING SENATE RATIFICATION MAN?
ALL OF WHOM SUPPORTED HIM FOR
THAT POWER AS U.N. AMBASSADOR.
THE NOMINATION AND FOR ELECTION.
ALL OF WHOM SUPPORTED HIM FOR
I MEAN --
THE NOMINATION AND FOR ELECTION.
>> Pelley: YOU'RE SAYING
I MEAN --
THAT'S DIFFERENT?
>> Pelley: YOU'RE SAYING
>> THEY'RE LOYALIST.
THAT'S DIFFERENT?
WELL, HILLARY CLINTON DIDN'T
>> THEY'RE LOYALIST.
SUPPORT HIM.
WELL, HILLARY CLINTON DIDN'T
LEON PANETTA WAS NOT AN INTIMATE
SUPPORT HIM.
OR SUPPORTER, EVEN THE SUCCESSOR
LEON PANETTA WAS NOT AN INTIMATE
OF BOB GATES, BOB GATES DID NOT
OR SUPPORTER, EVEN THE SUCCESSOR
SUPPORT HIM.
OF BOB GATES, BOB GATES DID NOT
JIM JONES WAS NOT CAMPAIGNING IN
SUPPORT HIM.
IOWA FOR HIM.
JIM JONES WAS NOT CAMPAIGNING IN
>> Pelley: WHAT DOES THAT SAY?
IOWA FOR HIM.
>> WELL, IT SAYS THERE'S A
>> Pelley: WHAT DOES THAT SAY?
PULLING IN OF LOYALTY -- AND I'M
>> WELL, IT SAYS THERE'S A
NOT SAYING LOYALTY RUMPS ABILITY
PULLING IN OF LOYALTY -- AND I'M
BECAUSE THESE ARE ABLE PEOPLE.
NOT SAYING LOYALTY RUMPS ABILITY
I THINK IN THE CASE OF SUSAN
BECAUSE THESE ARE ABLE PEOPLE.
RICE THERE'S NO QUESTION THIS
I THINK IN THE CASE OF SUSAN
WAS VERY PERSONAL WITH THE
RICE THERE'S NO QUESTION THIS
PRESIDENT.
WAS VERY PERSONAL WITH THE
HE LIKES HER, HE'S CLOSE TO HER,
PRESIDENT.
HE APPRECIATES HER SUPPORT,
HE LIKES HER, HE'S CLOSE TO HER,
PARTICULARLY IN 2008 AND HE
HE APPRECIATES HER SUPPORT,
KNOWS SHE WAS HUNG OUT TO DRY ON
PARTICULARLY IN 2008 AND HE
BENGHAZI, THAT HIS
KNOWS SHE WAS HUNG OUT TO DRY ON
ADMINISTRATION --
BENGHAZI, THAT HIS
>> Woodruff: THE SO-CALLED
ADMINISTRATION --
TALKING POINTS.
>> Woodruff: THE SO-CALLED
>> IT WASN'T PETRAEUS, IT WASN'T
TALKING POINTS.
CLINTON, IT WASN'T PANETTA WHO
>> IT WASN'T PETRAEUS, IT WASN'T
DID THE FIVE SHOWS, SHE DID IT
CLINTON, IT WASN'T PANETTA WHO
AND PAID FOR IT.
DID THE FIVE SHOWS, SHE DID IT
>> Woodruff: SHE COULDN' COULDNE
AND PAID FOR IT.
SECRETARY OF STATE SO HE'S
>> Woodruff: SHE COULDN' COULDNE
MAKING HER NATIONAL SECURITY
SECRETARY OF STATE SO HE'S
ADVISOR.
MAKING HER NATIONAL SECURITY
>> I THINK THAT'S IT AND I THINK
ADVISOR.
HE REALLY FELT AN OBLIGATION AS
>> I THINK THAT'S IT AND I THINK
WELL AS AN EMOTIONAL COMMITMENT.
HE REALLY FELT AN OBLIGATION AS
>> Woodruff: CHANGE IN FOREIGN
WELL AS AN EMOTIONAL COMMITMENT.
POLICY DIRECTION?
>> Woodruff: CHANGE IN FOREIGN
>> I DOUBT IT.
POLICY DIRECTION?
OBAMA RUNS HIS OWN FOREIGN
>> I DOUBT IT.
POLICY.
OBAMA RUNS HIS OWN FOREIGN
THERE MAY BE MORE OF A TING
POLICY.
TOWARD THIS HUMANITARIAN
THERE MAY BE MORE OF A TING
INTERVENTIONIST SIDE BUT HE RUNS
TOWARD THIS HUMANITARIAN
HIS OWN POLICY.
INTERVENTIONIST SIDE BUT HE RUNS
>> I HAVEN'T HEARD EITHER ONE OF
HIS OWN POLICY.
THEM MENTION THE WORD "SYRIA" IN
>> I HAVEN'T HEARD EITHER ONE OF
PUBLIC.
THEM MENTION THE WORD "SYRIA" IN
APPARENTLY THE DAMASCUS MOMENT
PUBLIC.
FOR SUSAN RICE IN HER CAREER WAS
APPARENTLY THE DAMASCUS MOMENT
RWANDA IN THE CLINTON
FOR SUSAN RICE IN HER CAREER WAS
ADMINISTRATION AND SHE'S BECOME
RWANDA IN THE CLINTON
-- THAT WOULD NEVER BE REPEATED.
ADMINISTRATION AND SHE'S BECOME
THAT WAS ON HER WATCH AND SHE
-- THAT WOULD NEVER BE REPEATED.
FEELS AN ENORMOUS SENSE OF
THAT WAS ON HER WATCH AND SHE
OBLIGATION BUT I HAVEN'T HEARD
FEELS AN ENORMOUS SENSE OF
HER OR SAMANTHA POWER.
OBLIGATION BUT I HAVEN'T HEARD
>> Woodruff: LET'S BRING IT
HER OR SAMANTHA POWER.
HOME FINALLY.
>> Woodruff: LET'S BRING IT
DOMESTIC -- A POLITICAL STORY.
HOME FINALLY.
NEW JERSEY THIS WEEK LOST LONG
DOMESTIC -- A POLITICAL STORY.
TIME SENATOR FRANK LAUTENBERG, A
NEW JERSEY THIS WEEK LOST LONG
DEMOCRAT.
TIME SENATOR FRANK LAUTENBERG, A
THE REPUBLICAN GOVERNOR, MARK,
DEMOCRAT.
CHRIS CHRISTIE, AFTER A FEW
THE REPUBLICAN GOVERNOR, MARK,
DAYS, ANNOUNCED THAT HE WILL
CHRIS CHRISTIE, AFTER A FEW
HAVE A SPECIAL ELECTION FOUR
DAYS, ANNOUNCED THAT HE WILL
MONTHS FROM NOW AND HE NAMED
HAVE A SPECIAL ELECTION FOUR
SOMEBODY AS A CARETAKER, THE
MONTHS FROM NOW AND HE NAMED
STATE ATTORNEY GENERAL.
SOMEBODY AS A CARETAKER, THE
BUT, DAVID, WHAT DOES IT SAY
STATE ATTORNEY GENERAL.
THAT CHRISTIE IS HAVING A
BUT, DAVID, WHAT DOES IT SAY
SPECIAL ELECTION WHICH JUST
THAT CHRISTIE IS HAVING A
HAPPENS TO BE A MONTH BEFORE HIS
SPECIAL ELECTION WHICH JUST
OWN STANDING FOR REELECTION AS
HAPPENS TO BE A MONTH BEFORE HIS
GOVERNOR OF THE STATE?
OWN STANDING FOR REELECTION AS
>> HE'S AN ASTONISHING GOVERNOR
GOVERNOR OF THE STATE?
WHO WANTS TO BE REELECTED.
>> HE'S AN ASTONISHING GOVERNOR
SO HE'S A REPUBLICAN IN A
WHO WANTS TO BE REELECTED.
DEMOCRATIC STATE SO HE DECIDES I
SO HE'S A REPUBLICAN IN A
DON'T WANT TO RUN ON THE SAME
DEMOCRATIC STATE SO HE DECIDES I
TICKET WHERE THERE'S A POPULAR
DON'T WANT TO RUN ON THE SAME
DEMOCRATIC SENATORIAL CANDIDATE
TICKET WHERE THERE'S A POPULAR
WHO WILL PROBABLY WIN AND BRING
DEMOCRATIC SENATORIAL CANDIDATE
IN DEMOCRATIC VOTES SO HE'S GOT
WHO WILL PROBABLY WIN AND BRING
A LOT OF FLEXIBILITY, HE CAN
IN DEMOCRATIC VOTES SO HE'S GOT
SCHEDULE THE ELECTION WHEN HE
A LOT OF FLEXIBILITY, HE CAN
WANTS AND HE DECIDE TO SCHEDULE
SCHEDULE THE ELECTION WHEN HE
IT 13 MINUTES BEFORE HIS OWN
WANTS AND HE DECIDE TO SCHEDULE
ELECTION.
IT 13 MINUTES BEFORE HIS OWN
TO SORT OF GET IT ALL OUT OF THE
ELECTION.
WA +*EUB WAY.
TO SORT OF GET IT ALL OUT OF THE
A COUPLE WEEKS BEFORE.
WA +*EUB WAY.
BUT, YOU KNOW, HE WANTS TO WIN
A COUPLE WEEKS BEFORE.
AND HE'S USING POWER TO DO IT.
BUT, YOU KNOW, HE WANTS TO WIN
IS IT INEXCUSABLE?
AND HE'S USING POWER TO DO IT.
I THINK IT'S AN EXCUSABLE USE OF
IS IT INEXCUSABLE?
POWER.
I THINK IT'S AN EXCUSABLE USE OF
>> Woodruff: EXCUSABLE.
POWER.
>> IS IT TOTALLY ON THE UP AND
>> Woodruff: EXCUSABLE.
UP?
>> IS IT TOTALLY ON THE UP AND
NO, IT'S A POLITICAL MANEUVER.
UP?
>> WHAT MADE HIM SPECIAL IS HE
NO, IT'S A POLITICAL MANEUVER.
WAS A TELL IT LIKE IT IS
>> WHAT MADE HIM SPECIAL IS HE
DIFFERENT NOT YOUR TYPICAL POLL,
WAS A TELL IT LIKE IT IS
AS BURY PARK, NEW JERSEY, AUGUST
DIFFERENT NOT YOUR TYPICAL POLL,
OF 2012 HURRICAN HURRICANE SANDS
AS BURY PARK, NEW JERSEY, AUGUST
COMING AND HE GOES DOWN THERE
OF 2012 HURRICAN HURRICANE SANDS
AND SAYS "GET OFF THE BEACH."
COMING AND HE GOES DOWN THERE
NOBODY ELSE IN POLITICS DOES IT,
AND SAYS "GET OFF THE BEACH."
PEOPLE CHEER.
NOBODY ELSE IN POLITICS DOES IT,
HE IS DIFFERENT AND THIS MAKES
PEOPLE CHEER.
HIM A POLL.
HE IS DIFFERENT AND THIS MAKES
THIS WAS TOO CUTE BY HALF.
HIM A POLL.
THIS WAS A WAY OF SAYING WE'RE
THIS WAS TOO CUTE BY HALF.
GOING TO HAVE AN ELECTION, OKAY,
THIS WAS A WAY OF SAYING WE'RE
THE DEMOCRATS WILL HAVE A
GOING TO HAVE AN ELECTION, OKAY,
PRIMARY BECAUSE THAT MEANS TWO
THE DEMOCRATS WILL HAVE A
HOUSE MEMBERS CAN RUN AND NOT
PRIMARY BECAUSE THAT MEANS TWO
JEOPARDIZE THEIR SEAT BUS AT THE
HOUSE MEMBERS CAN RUN AND NOT
SAME TIME, JUDY, WHAT IT MEANS
JEOPARDIZE THEIR SEAT BUS AT THE
IS THAT HE WILL NOT FACE, AS
SAME TIME, JUDY, WHAT IT MEANS
DAVID PUT IT, A POPULAR DEMOCRAT
IS THAT HE WILL NOT FACE, AS
ON THE BALLOT, RISK HIS MARGIN.
DAVID PUT IT, A POPULAR DEMOCRAT
ALL HE'S TALKING ABOUT RIGHT NOW
ON THE BALLOT, RISK HIS MARGIN.
IS HIS MARGIN.
ALL HE'S TALKING ABOUT RIGHT NOW
>> Woodruff: YOU MENTIONED IT
IS HIS MARGIN.
WILL COST --
>> Woodruff: YOU MENTIONED IT
>> $24 MILLION.
WILL COST --
HOLDING DOWN MEALS ON WHEELS FOR
>> $24 MILLION.
PEOPLE.
HOLDING DOWN MEALS ON WHEELS FOR
>> HE WAS NEVER MOTHER TERESA.
PEOPLE.
HE WAS A POLITICIAN.
>> HE WAS NEVER MOTHER TERESA.
>> BUT HE WAS DIFFERENT.
HE WAS A POLITICIAN.
IT WASN'T SUCH A SELF-SERVING --
>> BUT HE WAS DIFFERENT.
THIS WAS SO TRANSPARENTLY
IT WASN'T SUCH A SELF-SERVING --
SELF-SERVING PLUS HE WOULDN'T
THIS WAS SO TRANSPARENTLY
EVEN LET POOR FRANK LAUTENBERG
SELF-SERVING PLUS HE WOULDN'T
BE BURIED BEFORE HE STARTED
EVEN LET POOR FRANK LAUTENBERG
SPECULATING ABOUT THE THING.
BE BURIED BEFORE HE STARTED
>> Woodruff: NOTHING
SPECULATING ABOUT THE THING.
SELF-SERVING ABOUT THE TWO OF
>> Woodruff: NOTHING
YOU, DAVID AND MARK, THANK YOU.
SELF-SERVING ABOUT THE TWO OF
>> LOVE YOU'RINGS.
YOU, DAVID AND MARK, THANK YOU.
>> Woodruff: ON OUR HOME PAGE,
>> LOVE YOU'RINGS.
YOU CAN WATCH THEIR CONVERSATION
>> Woodruff: ON OUR HOME PAGE,
FROM 2007 WHEN THE ISSUE OF
YOU CAN WATCH THEIR CONVERSATION
N.S.A. WIRETAPPING FIRST
FROM 2007 WHEN THE ISSUE OF
DOMINATED THE NEWS.
N.S.A. WIRETAPPING FIRST
CATCH THAT AND DON'T MISS A
DOMINATED THE NEWS.
SPECIAL DOUBLE HEADER LIVE WITH
CATCH THAT AND DON'T MISS A
MARK AND DAVID ON JUNE 21.
>> Brown: WE'LL BE BACK SHORTLY
WITH THE STORY OF A YOUNG
CHINESE WOMAN'S SEARCH FOR HER
FATHER THAT INSPIRED A NEW
NOVEL.
BUT FIRST, THIS IS PLEDGE WEEK
ON PBS.
THIS BREAK ALLOWS YOUR PUBLIC
TELEVISION STATION TO ASK FOR
YOUR SUPPORT.
AND THAT SUPPORT HELPS KEEP
PROGRAMS LIKE OURS ON THE AIR.
>> Woodruff: THIS WEEK MARKED
THE 24th ANNIVERSARY OF THE
TIANANMEN SQUARE PROTESTS.
GWEN IFILL HAS OUR BOOK
CONVERSATION, ABOUT A YOUNG
CHINESE WOMAN NAMED IN HONOR OF
THAT REVOLT AND HER FICTIONAL
COUNTERPART.
IN IT, TWO AMERICAN HIGH
SCHOOLERS SET OUT TO FIND A
MISSING POLITICAL DISSIDENT.
THE FICTIONAL GIRL AND THE REAL
LIFE WOMAN WHO INSPIRESPIRED THS
STORY SHARE THE SAME NAME,
TI-ANNA.
FRED HIATT WAS INSPIRED BY THE
SEARCH FORTY JANA'S FATHER.
THANK YOU BOTH FOR JOINING US.
BRAD, TELL ME HOW YOU TWO MET?
>> WE WENT ABOUT FIVE YEARS AGO
WHEN TI-ANNA CAME TO WASHINGTON
AFTER GRADUATING HIGH SCHOOL
TRYING TO BRING ATTENTION TO HER
FATHER'S CASE.
SHE SUBMITTED AN OP-ED TO THE
"WASHINGTON POST"-- ABOUT WE GET
100 A DAY-- BUT THIS ONE WAS
EXTRAORDINARY.
AND WE PUBLISHED IT AND I SAID
"WOULD YOU HAVE A CUP OF COFFEE
WITH ME?"
AND THAT'S HOW WE MET.
>> Ifill: HOW DID YOU KNOW
THIS STORY WOULD GET ATTENTION?
>> I'M FROM CANADA AND I WAS
TRYING TO BRING ATTENTION TO MY
FATHER'S CASE AND SUBMITTING AN
OP-ED WAS ONE WAY SOMEONE ELSE
TOLD ME I SHOULD TRY SO I
DIDN'T.
I NEVER THOUGHT THAT IT WOULD BE
PUBLISHED AND THAT LATER ON A
BOOK WOULD COME OF IT.
>> Ifill: TI-ANNA, TELL US THE
STORY OF THE REALTY ANNA,
INCLUDING THE ORIGIN OF YOUR
NAME.
>> OKAY, SO I'M NAMED AFTER
TIANANMEN SQUARE, JUNE 4, AND I
WAS BORN IN 1989 AND MY FATHER
WHO WAS A WELL-RENOWN POLITICAL
DISSIDENT AT THE TIME DECIDED
THAT HE WANTED TO NAME ME IN
COMMEMORATION OF HIS COLLEAGUES
WHO DIED THAT NIGHT.
AND ALSO IN CELEBRATION OF THE
IDEALS THAT THE STUDENTS WERE --
HAD SACRIFICED THEIR LIVES FOR.
MY FATHER WAS A POLITICAL
DISSIDENT.
HE MOVED TO THE UNITED STATES IN
1982 TO FOUND THE OVERSEAS
CHINESE DEMOCRACY MOVEMENT, A
CAUSE THAT HE GAVE HIMSELF TO.
AND HE -- FOR 20 YEARS HE
ADVOCATED FOR DEMOCRATIC CHANGE
IN CHINA UNTIL 2002 WHEN HE WAS
KIDNAPPED FROM VIETNAM, FORCED
INTO CHINA, AND EVENTUALLY
ARRESTED AND SENTENCED TO LIFE
IN PRISON WHERE HE HAS BEEN EVER
SINCE.
>> Ifill: HOW DO YOU COMPARE
YOURSELF TOR FICTIONAL
COUNTERPART?
>> I CAN'T COMPARE AT ALL.
SHE'S -- IT'S KIND OF STRANGE TO
BE FICTIONALIZED INTO A A
HEROINE OF SORTS.
YOU CAN'T HELP BUT MAKE A SORT
OF COMPARISON AND THE FICTIONAL
TI-ANNA, SHE'S PRETTY GREAT.
SHE'S -- (LAUGHS)
SHE'S SMART AND COURAGEOUS AND
VERY FILIAL AND I THINK IT'S
GOOD BECAUSE IT'S A -- I THINK
IT'S GOOD TO HAVE SOMEONE KIND
OF ALMOST SOMEONE TO LOOK UP TO
IN THIS BOOK.
>> Ifill: FRED, WHY A YOUNG
ADULT BOOK?
THIS COULD HAVE BEEN A CHURN'S
BOOK.
THIS COULD HAVE BEEN AN ADULT
NOVEL.
WHY THIS PARTICULAR -- I KNOW
YOU HAVE A CHILD READING TEEN
LIT NOW.
>> YES.
>> Ifill: BUT WHAT ABOUT THIS
STORY LENDS ITSELF TO THAT?
>> IT'S A STORY OF ADVENTURE AND
OF A FRIENDSHIP BETWEEN THESE
TWO THAT I THOUGHT WOULD WORK
FOR KIDS BUT I DID ALSO THINK
THAT, YOU KNOW, THERE ARE A LOT
OF YOUNG READERS WHO ARE
INTERESTED IN THE WORLD AND JUST
INTERESTED IN HUMAN RIGHTS AND
HUMAN TRAFFICKING WHICH ALSO
COMES INTO THIS STORY AND I
DON'T HAVE ANYTHING AGAINST
ZOMBIES AND VAMPIRES BUT FOR
KIDS WHO MIGHT WANT TO MOVE TO
SOMETHING ELSE IT WOULD -- IT
MIGHT BE GOOD TO HAVE A STORY
THAT DEALS WITH SOME OF THESE
ISSUES.
>> Ifill: DO YOU FEEL THAT IN
YOUR USING THIS THIS WAY,
TELLING THE STORY AS A WAY OF
GETTING TO AN ISSUE THAT
OTHERWISE WE DON'T TALK ABOUT
THAT MUCH AND -- IMPRISONED
DISSIDENTS AND HUMAN RIGHTS
ISSUES IN A PLACE LIKE CHINA
WHERE THE U.S. IS TRYING VERY
HARD TO WORK WITH THESE DAYS?
>> YEAH.
AND THIS STORY WAS A WAY THAT
MIGHT PROVIDE AN OPENING FOR
KIDS TO START THINKING AND
TALKING ABOUT THOSE ISSUES.
>> Ifill: TI-ANNA, NOW YOU
LIVE IN TAIWAN?
YOU'RE STUDYING LANGUAGE?
MANDARIN.
>> CORRECT.
>> Ifill: TELL US ABOUT YOUR
FATHER.
WHEN IS THE LAST TIME YOU SAW
HIM?
WHAT IS HAPPENING WITH HIM?
>> SO MY FATHER HE'S SERVING HIS
SENTENCE IN A PRISON ABOUT SIX
HOURS AWAY FROM HONG KONG.
>> Ifill: HE'S 65 NOW?
>> 66 YEARS OLD.
NO LONGER A YOUNG MAN.
HE HAS CHRONIC HEALTH ISSUES AND
HAS HAD THREE STROKES IN THE
LAST TEN YEARS DURING HIS
IMPRISONMENT.
I LAST SAW MY FATHER IN
DECEMBER, 2008, AND I OBVIOUSLY
WENT TO SEE HIM AND -- BUT SINCE
THEN I HAVEN'T BEEN ABLE TO GET
A VISA TO GO TO CHINA AND I
ASSUME IT'S AS A RESULT OF --
THE RESULT OF THINGS I MIGHT
HAVE SAID AND DONE IN SUPPORT OF
HIS RELEASE.
WE EXCHANGE LETTERS QUITE
FREQUENTLY.
I GOT A FEW LETTERS FROM HIM
JUST LAST MONTH.
>> Ifill: DOES HE KNOW ABOUT
THE BOOK?
>> I'M NOT SURE.
I WROTE HIM A LETTER WHEN IT
CAME OUT IN APRIL BUT THERE'S --
WHEN YOU WRITE A LETTER THERE'S
A LOT OF CENSORSHIP SO WHEN YOU
SEND IT, IT'S HELD AT THE PRISON
FOR ABOUT A MONTH OR TWO BEFORE
HE ACTUALLY GETS IT SO I DON'T
KNOW.
I DON'T KNOW IF HE KNOWS ABOUT
IT JUST YET.
BUT HOPEFULLY SOON.
>> Ifill: WHAT DO YOU HOPE,
FRED, TO ACCOMPLISH BY WRITING
THIS WAY?
>> IN THE BACK OF THE BOOK
THERE'S AN AFTERWARD BY TI-ANNA
AND BY ME FOR YOUNG PEOPLE WHO
MIGHT WANT TO GET SROFLED IN
THESE ISSUES.
TALKS A LITTLE BIT ABOUT HOW.
OF COURSE, THE BEST THING WOULD
BE, YOU KNOW, IF WHEN THE
PAPERBACK COMES OUT WE COULD
WRITE AN AFTERWARD ABOUT HER
FATHER BEING FREED.
>> Ifill: THE NINE OF THE BOOK
IS "NINE DAYS" WRITTEN BY FRED
HIATT OF THE "WASHINGTON POST"
AND IT TELLS THE FICTIONAL STORY
OF THE REAL LIFE TI-ANNA WANG.
THANK YOU SO MUCH FOR JOINING
US.
>> THANK YOU.
>> THANK YOU, GWEN.
>> Woodruff: AGAIN, THE MAJOR
DEVELOPMENTS OF THE DAY:
PRESIDENT OBAMA VIGOROUSLY
DEFENDED GOVERNMENT SURVEILLANCE
OF PHONE AND INTERNET ACTIVITY.
AND THE ECONOMY ADDED 175,000
AND AERIAL CASTRO, THE LEAV CLED
MAN OF HOLDING THREE WOMEN
CAPTIVE FOR A DECADE WAS
INDICTED LATE TODAY ON 329
CHARGES INCLUDING MURDER, RAPE,
AND KIDNAPPING.
ONLINE, WE DELVE INTO TODAY'S
JOBS REPORT.
KWAME HOLMAN EXPLAINS.
>> Holman: ON MAKING SENSE, WE
ANALYZE THE DATA AND ROUND-UP
STOCK MARKET AND MEDIA REACTION.
PLUS, AN ECONOMIST'S TAKE ON
EXPANDING APPRENTICESHIP
TRAINING TO COMBAT HIGH YOUTH
UNEMPLOYMENT.
FIND ANSWERS TO YOUR QUESTIONS
ALL THAT AND MORE IS ON OUR
WEBSITE newshour.pbs.org.
JUDY?
>> Woodruff: AND THAT'S THE
"NEWSHOUR" FOR TONIGHT.
ON MONDAY, WE'LL KICK OFF A WEEK
ON FOOD WITH STORIES FROM AROUND
THE WORLD ABOUT WHAT WE EAT, HOW
WE PRODUCE IT, AND HOW THAT'S
CHANGING.
I'M JUDY WOODRUFF.
>> Brown: AND I'M JEFFREY BROWN.
"WASHINGTON WEEK" CAN BE SEEN
LATER THIS EVENING ON MOST
PBS STATIONS.
WE'LL SEE YOU ONLINE AND AGAIN
HERE MONDAY EVENING.
HAVE A NICE WEEKEND.
THANKS FOR JOINING US.
GOOD NIGHT.